Hi there. Let me show you what Playright
CLA is. It's a new tool in the Playright
family.
In this video, we're going to talk about
what Playright CLA is. We'll compare it
to MCP, give some demos, talk about
token efficiency, uh some capabilities,
and uh hopefully you'll have a better
idea on which one you should be using in
the future. Let me start with the demo.
This is a demo of the Playright CLI
functionality. I'm starting in an empty
folder uh demo CLI and uh I'm going to
install playright CLI globally. It means
that it'll be available in all the
locations and the first thing I do is
I'm initializing my workspace. I'm
saying playright CLI install which uh
creates an empty folder called playrite
playright and that's it. And we are
using that to differentiate between
different workspaces on your disk. Each
of these workspaces uh is going to have
its own set of browsers that it's going
to use. more about that later. But I'd
like to also install some skills in this
workspace. I'm calling install skills
and uh it installs a bunch of uh cloud
skills in my workspace. Let me start
cloud and give it a task. I'm going to
ask it to open playright def which is a
web page. Search for locators which is
just a word and check that the doc is
available for each language. And uh by
the language we means that it's
available for JavaScript, Python, Java
and .NET. And I'm also asking it to take
screenshots for each uh of the language
docs. So let's see how it does it. What
we're looking at is 16x uh time lapse of
what was happening. And uh what was
happening is just cloud was talking to a
browser using the CLI utility. Let's see
the result is there. Let's look at the
context which allows us to see how much
tokens we have spent. But we won't stop
here for a long time. And we're going to
proceed with the MCP version of the same
task. Um, let me start cla
um I see MCP server installed. Playright
MCP is installed. No skills are
installed in this work folder. So what
I'm going to do is I'm going to give it
exactly the same task and again 16x
timelapse. And uh it's done. Let's also
open the context stats here to see how
much tokens we have consumed.
All right. So what we are seeing here is
that we have uh taken 114,000 tokens for
this operation which is quite costly.
Let's compare this to what we have
gotten with CLI and the CLI has taken
only 26.8,000 tokens.
So what we have seen in the demo was
that MTP consumed more context. But why?
Let's dig a little deeper.
This is what MTP was doing. So let's
explore these two calls. First, it tried
to navigate to a page and play rate dev
is a docosource page. It's pretty big.
It has a lot of content, a lot of uh DOM
control, scripts, etc. And even though
playrate MCP is uh very efficient in uh
conveying only the accessibility
snapshot to the LLM, it still replied
with the entirety of it and it all has
gotten into the context window. And we
can see here that result exceeds the
maximum amount of tokens.
And after that it took a screenshot. But
when uh MTP is taking a screenshot LLM
is asking it to do so. So we are
replying with all those bytes to the LLM
itself. And again the image tokens end
up in the context. And in this case that
wasn't the goal. All we wanted was to
capture a screenshot and save it on
disk. Let's compare it to what CLI was
doing. CLI said I'd like to go to a
location. And then without even
capturing a snapshot or reading a file
with a snapshot from the disk which was
created as a result of this call, it
immediately took a screenshot and saved
it this file. As a result, it saved
context. None of these uh tokens got
into it because LLM didn't actually need
them. So what CLI is doing is uh all of
the data that it emits it saves into
files and then your coding agent is
going to make a decision of whether it
needs to go to LLM or not. Let's talk
about capabilities.
We saw how MCP worked but you will see
that MCP only used a couple of dozens of
commands and that is not because of uh
we don't have those. We do have them. In
fact, all the CLA capabilities are also
present through MCP. We just don't
enable them by default because they are
consuming context.
On the other hand, on CLI, we don't have
that limitation. So, we can expose all
of these commands and more.
All right. So, we've seen uh the token
use. We've talked about capabilities.
Now, seems like it's a no-brainer. You
should be using CLI, right? Well, let's
talk about it a little bit.
CLI is the new tool and it shines when
it's being used as a part of the coding
agent and the coding agent is uh your
claude code or GitHub copilot or any
other agent that can edit files that has
access to your workspace. We can be
efficient there. We can capture those
snapshots, save them on disk, save those
screenshots on disk and let coding agent
decide whether it wants to read them in
full or it wants to send the entirety
into the LLM. So, it becomes token
efficient that way. So CLI requires a
coding agent to be efficient. Uh other
than that it is skill-based and you can
add knowledge about playrite and your
scenarios and through the skills. So
it's interoperable with other
skill-based tools. It also is headless
by default because we assume that you're
going to run a lot of background agents
in your coding agents with them.
On the other hand, MCP is going to work
with any generic agent. It's a strict
standard and tools know what to expect,
how to call these MTP tools, what the
results are. But in this case,
everything is in the hands of the LLM.
So all of the replies are most likely
going to make their way back into the
LLM and are potentially going to
overwhelm its context. You can still
have multiple browsers in MTP. No
problem. And the efficiency of MCP can
actually be configured. You can uh allow
and disallow those tools and see what
you need. It's a little bit more manual
in that regard. Also, historically MCP
is by default. So to recap, if you're
using a coding agent, if your tasks are
coding, testing, you're using cloud,
GitHub, copilot, you probably want to
use CLI. On the other hand, if you are
authoring an agentic loop that is
performing certain tasks for your
scenarios, MTP is still the way to go.
That's about it. Heavy testing.